Release notes and migration guide ready to merge (#2370)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.0-release-notes-apis.adoc

= TinyMCE 6.0 API changes
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.0 API changes
:description: TinyMCE 6.0 API changes
:keywords: releasenotes, apis

This section documents the improvements, changes and fixes made to {productname} 6.0 APIs.

It also documents the {productname} 6.0 APIs that have been removed.

* xref:apis[APIs]
* xref:new-and-improved-apis[New and improved APIs]
* xref:changed-apis[Changed APIs]
* xref:fixed-apis[Fixed APIs]
* xref:removed-or-deprecated-apis[Removed or deprecated APIs]

// tag::apis[]
[[apis]]
== APIs

[[new-and-improved-apis]]
=== New and improved APIs

[[editor-annotator-removeall]]
==== `editor.annotator.removeAll`

> The new `editor.annotator.removeAll` API replaces the `removeAll` function built-in to the comments plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new `editor.annotator.removeAll` API replaces the `removeAll` function built-in to the Comments plugin.
```

[[editor-options]]
==== `editor.options` and `tinymce.activeEditor.options`

The new `editor.options` API replaces two old APIs: `editor.settings` and `editor.getParam`.

> Along with this new API, the new `tinymce.activeEditor.options` registry replaces `tinymce.activeeditor.settings`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Along with this new API, the new `tinymce.activeEditor.options` replaces `tinymce.activeEditor.settings`.
```

Reviewer 3: Removing `registry` here makes this read poorly. It probably should say `API` instead of `registry` though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Close enough to a duplicate of the line above, looking at technical accuracy (`editor` = `tinymce.activeEditor`)

[[editor-uploadImages]]
==== `editor.uploadImages()`

> The `editor.uploadImages()` API now includes a `remove` flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results returned from `editor.uploadImages()` API now includes a `removed` flag.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results returned from `editor.uploadImages()` API now includes a `removed` property.
```
The same as Ben's suggestion, it's just I used `property` instead of `flag`.

> The flag returns `true` when an image being uploaded is removed after failing to upload.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The property will be `true` when an image being uploaded is removed after failing to upload.
```

[[fakeclipboard]]
==== `FakeClipboard`

The new `FakeClipboard` API provides a means for storing state that can be set and accessed by plugins and the core editor.

`FakeClipboard` is implemented on the {productname} global, allowing anything to write to it and read from it.

[[resource-unload]]
==== `Resource.unload`

The new `Resource.unload` API makes it possible to unload resources in the resource loader.

> This allows tests, such as `ImageEmojiTest`, to remove existing databases before loading their own.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is a good example for the end-users. Can we come up with something that is more related to the end users.

Reviewer 3: Yeah `ImageEmojiTest` is very much an internal thing so we don't want to say something like that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Deferring figuring out a good example here

[[setdata]]

> ==== `setData` method in dialog API

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== `setData` method the in Dialog API
```
Also I changed `dialog` to `Dialog` since that's how it's used below instead.

The dialog API’s `setData` method now uses a deep merge algorithm.

Consequently, it now supports partial nested objects.

[[promise]]

> ==== success or failure callbacks replaced by `Promise` in multiple APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== `success` and `failure` callbacks replaced by `Promise` in multiple APIs
```

>  Previously, the AddOnManager, PluginManager, ScriptLoader, StyleSheetLoader, and ThemeManager APIs report resource loading status with `success` or `failure` callbacks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, the AddOnManager, PluginManager, ScriptLoader, StyleSheetLoader, and ThemeManager APIs reported resource loading status with `success` or `failure` callbacks.
```

> * Previously, the AddOnManager, PluginManager, ScriptLoader, StyleSheetLoader, and ThemeManager APIs report resource loading status with `success` or `failure` callbacks.
> +
> These APIs now, instead, return a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`. Also, `EditorUpload`, which already returns a `Promise`, had callbacks removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Previously, the AddOnManager, PluginManager, ScriptLoader, StyleSheetLoader, and ThemeManager APIs report resource loading status with `success` or `failure` callbacks.

These APIs now, instead, return a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`. Also, `EditorUpload`, which already returns a `Promise`, had callbacks removed.
```
The items above this aren't lists, so I assume this shouldn't be either?

> These APIs now, instead, return a `Promise`, with a value of either `resolve` or `reject`. Also, `EditorUpload`, which already returns a `Promise`, had callbacks removed.

Reviewer 3: As Andy mentioned this isn't a correct explanation.

[[changed-apis]]
=== Changed APIs

[[closebutton]]
==== `closeButton` and `timeout`

> * Previously, using `closeButton` to disable a _Notification’s_ close button required a `timeout` value to also be set.
> +
> In {productname} 6, `closeButton` shows or hides the close button regardless of a `timeout` value being set or not set.
> +
> Equivalently, setting a `timeout` value sets how long the notification presents before automatically closing, regardless of whether a close button is displayed or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, using `closeButton` to disable a _Notification’s_ close button required a `timeout` value to also be set.

In {productname} 6, `closeButton` shows or hides the close button regardless of a `timeout` value being set or not set.

Equivalently, setting a `timeout` value sets how long the notification presents before automatically closing, regardless of whether a close button is displayed or not.
```

Reviewer: As above - the rest aren't lists.

[[disabled]]
==== `disabled` functions renamed in all {productname} APIs

> Previously, multiple {productname} APIs and UI classes used `disable` or `disabled` in their function or property names.

Reviewer 3: `classes` seems like the wrong term here? In this case we probably should say `UI components` instead.

```suggestion
Previously, multiple {productname} APIs and UI components used `disable` or `disabled` in their function or property names.
```

In {productname} 6, these function names have been changed and configuration changes are required.

. `isDisabled()` functions are now `isEnabled() functions.
. The `enable()` and `disable()` functions are now the single `setEnabled(<state>)` function.
. The `disable(<name>)` and `enable(<name>)` functions are now the single `setEnabled(<name>, <state>)` function in the Dialog APIs.

> As well, the `.disabled` property is now the `.enabled` property in all {productname} UI classes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As well, the `.disabled` property is now the `.enabled` property in all {productname} UI components.
```

[[dom-domutils]]
==== `dom.DOMUtils`

> The `toHex` function has been removed from `dom.DOMUtils`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `toHex` method has been removed from `dom.DOMUtils`.
```

You were using `method` earlier here so we'd want to keep this consistent.

[[domparser]]
==== `DomParser`

The `filterNode` method has been removed from the `DomParser` API.

As well, the `DomParser` API no longer uses a custom parser internally and instead uses the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMParser[native `DOMParser` API].

[[editor-setcontent]]
==== `editor.SetContent`

> The `editor.SetContent` event’s `content` property has been deprecated.

Reviewer: @lnewson Please check? Reads weird to me

Reviewer 3: Almost correct, but yeah is a little "weird". I think the confusion is `editor.SetContent` isn't property on the `editor` API. Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
The `SetContent` editor event’s `content` property has been deprecated.
```

> The `SetContent` editor event’s `content` property has been deprecated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `content` property of `SetContent` event has been deprecated.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `content` property of the `SetContent` event has been deprecated.
```

[[env]]
==== `Env`

The following methods have been removed from the `Env` API:

* `opera`
* `webKit`
* `ie`
* `gecko`
* `mac`
* `iOS`
* `android`
* `desktop`
* `contentEditable`
* `caretAfter`
* `range`
* `ceFalse`
* `experimentalShadowDom`
* `fileApi`

Note, in particular, the removal of all legacy browser detection methods.

[[fire]]

> ==== `fire` functions renamed in all {productname} APIs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== `fire` methods renamed in all {productname} APIs
```

> The `fire()` function in `tinymce.Editor`, `tinymce.dom.EventUtils`, `tinymce.dom.DOMUtils`, `tinymce.util.Observable` and `tinymce.util.EventDispatcher` has been renamed to `dispatch()`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `fire()` method in `tinymce.Editor`, `tinymce.dom.EventUtils`, `tinymce.dom.DOMUtils`, `tinymce.util.Observable` and `tinymce.util.EventDispatcher` has been renamed to `dispatch()`.
```

> `fire` has been aliased to `dispatch` but has also been marked as _deprecated_.

Reviewer 4: I feel like this wording suggests fire has been deprecated, not dispatch. How about:

```suggestion
`dispatch` is now an alias to `fire` and has been marked as _deprecated_.
```

Author: Re-written as follows:

`fire` has been aliased to `dispatch`, so existing configurations should still work as expected.

`fire` has also, however, been marked as _deprecated_. Editing configurations to use `dispatch()` is recommended.

A useful reminder that brevity is not a virtue in and of itself. Thank you.

Also, edited equivalent material in `migration-from-5x.adoc`.

Reviewer 3: Configurations is probably the wrong term there. `integrations` would be my suggestion instead, as it's not going to be a configuration but either the logic they've written to integration TinyMCE into the product or something like a third-party plugin.

Author: To quote my commit message just now:

Further edit: s/configurations/integrations/

Also edited final sentence in both sections to be straightforwardly specific: use `dispatch`; don’t use `fire`.

[[fixed-apis]]
=== Fixed APIs

[[editor-annotator-remove]]
==== `editor.annotator.remove`

> Previously, `editor.annotator.remove` scrolled to the removed material’s position when removing an annotation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, `editor.annotator.remove` scrolled to the removed contents position when removing an annotation.
```

It did not, as expected, retain the current selection or insertion point position in the {productname} editor.

With this release, `editor.annotator.remove` does not change the change the selection or insertion point position after removing an annotation.

[[editor-fire]]
==== `editor.fire()`

Previously, if the {productname} editor was removed, the `editor.fire()` API returned an incorrect object.

In {productname} 6.0, `editor.fire()` returns the correct object even when the editor is removed.

[[editor-getcontent]]
==== `editor.getContent()`

The `editor.getContent()` API can now provide custom content by preventing and overriding `content` in the `BeforeGetContent` event.

This makes it consistent with the `editor.selection.getContent()` API.

> The `editor.setContent()` API can also now be prevented from using the `BeforeSetContent` event.

Reviewer 2: Don't think this should be here

> This, too, makes it consistent with the `editor.selection.setContent()` API.

Reviewer 2: And this line shouldn't be here as well

[[editor-selection-getcontent]]
==== `editor.selection.getContent()`

> The `no_events` argument is Boolean. If set to `true`, events should not fire when `getContent` is called. Previously, `editor.selection.getContent()` did not respect this.

Reviewer 2: This line needs rewording. Maybe something along this line
```Previously, `editor.selection.getContent()` did not respect `no_events` argument, which if set to `true`, events should not fire when `getContent` is called```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `no_events` argument is set to `true`, events should not fire when `getContent` is called. Previously, `editor.selection.getContent()` did not respect this.
```
I think we need to keep the point order for technical accuracy, but that should be better?

In {productname} 6.0, `editor.selection.getContent()` treats the `no_events` setting as expected: when set to `false`, events are fired; when set to `true`, events are not fired.

[[removed-or-deprecated-apis]]
=== Removed or deprecated APIs

[[html-styles]]
==== `html.Styles`

> The `toHex` function has been removed from `html.Styles`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `toHex` method has been removed from `html.Styles`.
```

[[removed-or-deprecated-apis-saxparser]]
==== `SaxParser`

> With all filtering moved to the `DomParser` API, the `SaxParser` API has been removed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With all parsing moved to the `DomParser` API, the `SaxParser` API has been removed.
```

[[removed-or-deprecated-apis-tables]]

> ==== Table

Reviewer: Discussed, leaving as is.

> The `table` plugin’s functionality is, as of {productname} 6.0, entirely focussed on the user interface (UI) for creating and editing tables.

Reviewer 2: @ltrouton ?
